README.markdown, before:

## Schrödinger's hats: a puzzle about parities and permutations

Meet Schrödinger, who travels the world with an unusually clever clowder of
*n* talking cats. In their latest show, the cats stand in a line.
Schrödinger asks a volunteer to take *n*+1 hats, numbered zero to *n*, and
randomly assign one to each cat, so that there is one spare. Each cat sees all
of the hats in front of it, but not its own hat, nor those behind, nor the
spare hat. The cats then take turns, each saying a single number from the set
{0..*n*}, without repeating any number said previously, and
without any other communication. The cats are allowed a single incorrect guess,
but otherwise every cat must say the number on its own hat.

How do they do this? `Puzzle.thy` has the answer, with a proof in
[Isabelle/HOL][]. There is a PDF rendering of the entire proof, with detailed
commentary, in `Puzzle.pdf`.

### License

Copyright 2017 [Matthew Brecknell][]. Licensed under a [Creative Commons
Attribution 4.0 International License][CC].

[Matthew Brecknell]: http://matthew.brecknell.net/
[CC]: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/

### Contents

The `document` folder contains LaTeX files used in the PDF rendering.

The `extras` folder contains miscellaneous proofs, including:

- a more direct, bottom-up version of the main proof, in
  `Puzzle_Bottom_Up.thy`.
- a proof that the `parity` function calculates the evenness of the number of
  inversions, in `Parity_Inversions.thy`.
- a proof that `parity` can be calculated as a side-effect of a merge sort,
  in `Parity_Merge_Sort.thy`.

The `lib` folder contains:

- A handful of lemmas about lists and sets, in `Lib.thy`.
- Some syntax for presenting theorems in rule format, in
  `LaTeX_Rule_Sugar.thy`. This was taken from the Isabelle/HOL distribution,
  which has a BSD-style license.

[Isabelle/HOL]: https://isabelle.in.tum.de/

### Requirements

To build the proofs, install the [Isabelle2016-1][] distribution, and run
`make` in the root folder of this repository.

[Isabelle2016-1]: https://isabelle.in.tum.de/installation.html

Commit message:

add an abbreviated theory for YLJ17 talk

README.markdown, after:

## Schrödinger's hats: a puzzle about parities and permutations

Meet Schrödinger, who travels the world with an unusually clever clowder of
*n* talking cats. In their latest show, the cats stand in a line.
Schrödinger asks a volunteer to take *n*+1 hats, numbered zero to *n*, and
randomly assign one to each cat, so that there is one spare. Each cat sees all
of the hats in front of it, but not its own hat, nor those behind, nor the
spare hat. The cats then take turns, each saying a single number from the set
{0..*n*}, without repeating any number said previously, and
without any other communication. The cats are allowed a single incorrect guess,
but otherwise every cat must say the number on its own hat.

How do they do this? `Puzzle.thy` has the answer, with a proof in
[Isabelle/HOL][]. There is a PDF rendering of the entire proof, with detailed
commentary, in `Puzzle.pdf`.

[Isabelle/HOL]: https://isabelle.in.tum.de/

### License

Copyright 2017 [Matthew Brecknell][]. Licensed under a [Creative Commons
Attribution 4.0 International License][CC].

[Matthew Brecknell]: http://matthew.brecknell.net/
[CC]: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/

### Contents

The `document` folder contains LaTeX files used in the PDF rendering.

The `extras` folder contains miscellaneous proofs, including:

- a more direct, bottom-up version of the main proof, in
  `Puzzle_Bottom_Up.thy`.
- a proof that the `parity` function calculates the evenness of the number of
  inversions, in `Parity_Inversions.thy`.
- a proof that `parity` can be calculated as a side-effect of a merge sort,
  in `Parity_Merge_Sort.thy`.

The `lib` folder contains:

- A handful of lemmas about lists and sets, in `Lib.thy`.
- Some syntax for presenting theorems in rule format, in
  `LaTeX_Rule_Sugar.thy`. This was taken from the Isabelle/HOL distribution,
  which has a BSD-style license.

The `ylj17` folder contains a slightly abbreviated version of the top-down
proof for a talk at [YOW! Lambda Jam 2017][YLJ17].

[YLJ17]: http://lambdajam.yowconference.com.au/

### Requirements

To build the proofs, install the [Isabelle2016-1][] distribution, and run
`make` in the root folder of this repository.

[Isabelle2016-1]: https://isabelle.in.tum.de/installation.html
